rapid breach response - Toolshell CVE playbook (#40687)
demisto/content: Packs/CortexResponseAndRemediation/ReleaseNotes/1_1_93.md

  * [CVE-2025-49706](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2025-49706)
  * [CVE-2025-49704](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2025-49704)
  * [CVE-2025-53770](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2025-53770)
  * [CVE-2025-53771](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2025-53771)

* Harden SharePoint diagnostic/debug endpoints
* Rotate SharePoint Server ASP.NET machine keys
* Check IIS logs for suspicious activity
* Disable/Isolate unnecessary SharePoint services or endpoints (at least until those servers are patched)

---

### References

* [CVE-2025-49706 - NVD](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-49706)
* [CVE-2025-49704 - NVD](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-49704)
* [CVE-2025-53770 - NVD](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-53770)
* [CVE-2025-53771 - NVD](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-53771)
* [Microsoft Security Update – July 2025](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/)

---

### How to trigger the playbook

Triggered via:
- Cortex XDR alerts: `"CVE Exploitation - 685768089"` or `"CVE Exploitation - 818854253"` or `"CVE Exploitation - 903162508"`

> - Manually created an incident with this playbook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Manual creation of an incident with this playbook
```

Author: Done

---

### Playbook Flow

1. Run XQL Queries to detect possible affected servers running Microsoft SharePoint.
2. Search for downloaded or created webshell files using XQL + PowerShell (also for the known file name artifacts).

> 3. Run XQL on ane network and XDR dotnet events to determine if there was any usage of the CVEs in the organization.

Reviewer: Run XQL on any network.... ? ... on a network?

> 4. Check for malicious activity on the possible affected hosts for post-exploitation activities ( e.g., running PowerShell encoded commands on the hosts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Check for malicious activity on the possible affected hosts for post-exploitation activities (such as running PowerShell encoded commands on the hosts).
```

5. Retrieve IOCs from the Unit42 blog, hunt for those IOCs with XQL, and block malicious indicators.

---

**Note:** 

> This is a beta playbook, which lets you implement and test pre-release software. Since the playbook is beta, it might contain bugs. Updates to the pack during the beta phase might include non-backward-compatible features. We appreciate your feedback on the quality and usability of the pack to help us identify issues, fix them, and continually improve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a Beta playbook, which lets you implement and test pre-release software. Since the playbook is Beta, it might contain bugs. Updates to the pack during the Beta phase might include non-backward-compatible features. We appreciate your feedback on the quality and usability of the pack to help us identify issues, fix them, and continually improve.
```

> This is a beta playbook, which lets you implement and test pre-release software. Since the playbook is beta, it might contain bugs. Updates to the pack during the beta phase might include non-backward-compatible features. We appreciate your feedback on the quality and usability of the pack to help us identify issues, fix them, and continually improve.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a beta playbook. Updates to the pack during the beta phase might include non-backward-compatible features. We appreciate your feedback on the quality and usability of the pack to help us identify issues, fix them, and continually improve.
```
